(narrator) At the beginning
of the 20th Century,
Chicago is one of the most corrupt
and violent places in America.
(groaning)
But in the heart of the city,
a young gangster from
Brooklyn rises to the top.
Al Capone.
(man) There was something inside of him
that was absolutely driven.
It's like a train that
is out of control in motion.
In less than a decade,
the ruthless gangster
will create an
empire, pulling in millions...
eliminating all rivals
and transforming the Chicago Mafia
into the most
successful criminal syndicate
in the country, known as the Outfit.
- You're going down!
- (screaming)
(man) Al Capone's hold
on Chicago rackets,
and eventually rackets beyond...
- (gunshot firing)
- was extraordinary.
And he had to be very smart to do that.
Capone lays the foundation for
a new generation of mobsters
who build a city of sin...
To the future, gentlemen.
Faceoff with a political dynasty...
I have the lowdown on all the Kennedys.
And cement the Chicago Mafia's
place in history.
("Al") You've gone behind my back,
talking to my enemies.
This is what happens!
♪ ♪
- Synced and corrected by VitoSilans -
-- www.Addic7ed.com --
The story of America's
most notorious gangster...
starts on the streets of Brooklyn.
(knocking)
(jazz music playing)
♪ ♪
Take this downtown.
(man) This is a raid! Nobody move!
Against the wall!
All right, turn
around, hands on the wall!
(glass shattering)
(grunting)
Your gambling hall on 4th
Ave, the cops are raiding it!
I thought we paid them off?
We did.
Well, then why the
hell is this happening?
Mr. Torrio...
I want you to get me the police chief
on the phone, and I want the name of
every single one of those cops...
I grabbed as much as I could.
What's your name, kid?
Al Capone.
You guys could learn a
thing or two from this kid.
Get out of here.
♪ ♪
At the age of 14,
Alphonse Capone starts
running errands for local gangsters...
but he's just one of many immigrants
struggling to survive.
In 1913, nearly a million
people flood into New York City...
all looking for a better life.
The immigrants that came into America,
and especially New York,
were coming in in waves.
And the first ones were the Irish.
So when the Italians came in,
they were viewed as low people.
(narrator) For some Italians,
the only jobs available
require backbreaking work.
(man) Italians had a very difficult time
integrating into
mainstream American life.
They were extremely
diligent, very hardworking,
very family oriented,
and had to try twice as
hard to make it in America.
(man) I come home to a beautiful meal,
a beautiful wife, beautiful family.
Oh, thank you, thank you.
(all laughing)
(narrator) Al Capone lives with
his parents and eight siblings
in a small three-room
Brooklyn apartment.
Thank you, thank you.
(man) Al Capone's family were
very happy, very close-knit.
I think you almost
have to be close-knit
when you've got that many people living
in a little tenement apartment.
His father worked as a barber
and really did
anything he could to hustle,
to feed this very large family.
(boy chuckling)
(narrator) Despite
having respectable jobs,
the family struggles to get by.
(Deidre) My grandfather told me
that the oldest three
would have to sleep in the same bed.
And it was just a single bed.
And I think that they wanted
something better than that.
♪ ♪
For many Italians looking to get ahead,
there's another way to make money.
New Yorks ruled by street gangs
spread throughout the city
who band together to make big profits
running illegal
rackets in their neighborhoods.
(Jonathan) There were gangs who
were involved in all kinds of
different economic interests.
The illicit activity
was just overwhelming...
places where guys
could go to not just drink
but to have sex with prostitutes,
to gamble in casinos.
And the gangs were making
massive amounts of money.
Capone's been working as a runner
for a local Brooklyn gang
to bring in money for his family.
Kids like Capone were looking
for the quickest way to get ahead.
For some of them, sure,
that was staying in school
and trying to go to college.
But a lot of people didn't
have that kind of patience.
They needed to make money a lot faster.
Good work, Al.
Thanks, Mr. Torrio.
Capone works for an
up-and-coming Italian gangster,
an ex-lieutenant in New
York's notorious Five Points Gang...
Johnny Torrio.
Torrio was an interesting, cerebral
kind of subtle operator.
When Al Capone met Johnny Torrio,
he saw someone who kept a low profile
and avoided the law,
bribed the appropriate people
and knew how to make his way
without making a lot of waves.
Using his influence and connections...
It's good to see you too, sir.
Torrio builds a syndicate
of brothels and gambling houses
throughout New York and Brooklyn.
Kid, why don't you take a seat?
Torrio sees the potential in Capone
and takes him under his wing.
Make sure he stays out of trouble.
Make sure he don't touch anything
he's not supposed to touch.
You understand me?
♪ ♪
At the end of every week, you
reconcile the entire week,
and I want you to
bring those numbers to me.
You understand?
Yes, sir.
(man) Johnny Torrio,
he was a mentor of Al's,
and Johnny... Johnny taught
Al a lot about temperance
and... and the use of... of his...
of his brain over brawn.
He knew that Al Capone was both smart,
you know, and could handle himself.
It's really Torrio
who taught Capone that
this could be treated
as a serious business,
not just an underworld activity
but that it had something in common
with running a real business.
(seagulls squawking)
By tomorrow morning.
(man) All right.
Okay, off you go, you guys.
(narrator) After a few
years of grooming Capone,
Torrio decides to leave New York
for a lucrative
business opportunity in Chicago.
(chuckling)
- What, you're not gonna drink with me?
- Hey, Al.
Listen, I've got to go to
Chicago for some business.
It it could take some time.
Okay.
Frankie here could use
some help behind the bar.
You a good barman?
Yeah.
If you need anything, you
talk to Frankie, all right?
Hey, you'll be all right.
You've got a good
head on your shoulders.
Before Torrio leaves town,
he sets up Capone
with a powerful mobster
who runs a bar on Coney Island...
but he's also known throughout the city
as one of New York's top hit men.
(Laurence) Frankie Yale was a gunman.
He was tough and rough
around the edges and violent.
Far more volatile and
hot-tempered than Torrio.
He terrified a lot of
people, including Capone.
Drink.
- (coughing)
- (laughing)
You're all right, kid, you're all right.
Yeah, you're all right, you're good.
Yeah.
Capone begins working for Yale.
But unlike Torrio, who
worked liked a businessman...
Yale gets what he wants
through violence and intimidation...
and Capone knows that to move ahead
he has to become an enforcer.
Capone was not
inherently a violent person.
He was a placid person.
Not willing to cross the
line, Capone loses momentum.
And years later... he
still works for Yale, bartending.
Yeah, I got you.
How about you, beautiful?
Can I get you another round?
Sure.
What would you like?
Surprise me.
(Jonathan) Capone was working
as a bartender at the Harvard Inn
and saw a girl he... he
liked and approached her.
More often, huh?
What the hell are you doing?
We're just talking here.
- (glasses shattering)
- Relax!
I said we're just talking here.
(groaning)
Oh yeah!
Ahh!
(grunting)
(glasses shattering)
You son of a bitch!
(grunting)
(groaning)
(grunting continues)
(Jonathan) A local
gangster pulled out a knife,
slashing Capone across the
cheek, the neck, throat,
and that's how he acquired
the nickname "Scarface."
(narrator) After
getting in a knife fight,
Al Capone spends months recovering.
(Jonathan) To have a massive scar,
three cuts across the
side of your cheek,
had to have been devastating.
First of all, it's a sign of weakness.
Second of all, he's a young
man, and now he's got these
big scars across his face.
I think it must have been tough.
How you doing, gentlemen?
(narrator) With no
other options for work,
Capone returns to Yale's bar...
and begins dating a
girl named Mae Coughlin.
Bartending's okay, but...
- (laughing) Yeah.
- (laughing)
- Long hours, I'm guessing.
- Yeah, yeah.
- You're really cute, you know.
- (laughing)
(Deirdre) Mae was a lady personified.
She was very classy.
And, you know, she was beautiful.
♪ ♪
(narrator) After
dating for a few months,
Capone learns she's become pregnant
and they decide to marry.
But Capone knows he isn't earning enough
to support a wife and child...
so he decides that he needs to move up
in Frankie Yale's organization.
You have a minute?
What is it?
I was looking for some extra work.
I was wondering if you had something?
If someone calls in
sick, you can have their shift.
I don't mean bartending.
What kind of work are you looking for?
Whatever you want... I'll do it.
Tell you what, there's this guy,
his name's Tony Perotta,
and he owes me 1,500 bucks.
You think you can get it for me?
I'll take care of it.
Thank you.
And, Capone...
you come back with my money,
or you don't come back.
Yes, Mr. Yale.
♪
(bell tolling)
(narrator) In an effort to
support his growing family,
Al Capone agrees to collect a debt
from a low-level gangster.
Come on, come on, come on.
Oh!
That's rubbish.
That is rubbish.
("Al") Tony Perotta?
Do I know you?
You know my boss... Frankie Yale.
You owe him some money.
I'm here to collect it.
Tell him I'll give it to him next week.
He wants it today.
Look, I don't have it right now...
but I'm working on it, all right?
So get lost.
(gun cocking)
Look, I'm not leaving without the money.
What are you gonna do, shoot me?
Go on, do it.
Shoot me.
Go ahead, do it.
(man) Ah, come on!
That's what I thought, you didn't...
♪
(narrator) In 1919, Al Capone
commits murder for the first time.
(man) I've hurt people,
and I'm not proud of it,
but a major part of that life
is hurting people or killing people.
You graduate to that next level.
♪
(narrator) After
committing his first murder,
Capone realizes that
this is not the life he wants.
Al Capone wanted to
be a very good man...
and provide the best
for his wife and son.
He believed that family is everything.
So he decides to make a new start
and leave New York behind.
(seagulls squawking)
Invoices and receipts
for the past two weeks.
I want payroll on my desk
first thing in the morning.
- I'll get it done.
- Good.
(Laurence) Al Capone left
Brooklyn to go to Baltimore.
This was his way of getting
out of the neighborhood
and all its negative or
criminal influences.
He was able to land a job
at the Aiello Construction Company,
which was a legitimate
construction company,
and was an accountant there.
♪ ♪
("Al") You're still up?
I'm sorry the dinner's gone cold.
It's all right.
(narrator) Despite having an honest job,
Capone is struggling to
provide the life he wants
for his family.
(bell tolling)
- Thank you, Papa.
- All right.
You're looking sharp, huh?
In the spring of 1919,
Capone holds a baptism for his son
and asks his childhood
mentor Johnny Torrio
to come in from Chicago
and be the godfather.
Listen...
Mr. Capone.
Congratulations.
- Thank you.
How you doing?
How's Baltimore, how's bookkeeping?
Eh, it's a job, right?
Right.
You're doing well down
here though, yeah?
You know, money's a little tight,
but... we make it work.
How... how are things in Chicago?
Chicago's great.
A lot of opportunity.
I like it there.
You'd do well for yourself there.
I might find something for you.
I don't know.
You've got to think about it.
Hmm?
- Listen, Al...
- Yeah.
I've got a little something for you.
Johnny... I can't take that.
This is for the family.
Okay?
Thank you.
Think about it.
I will.
(Laurence) It was so difficult
to make it in the legitimate world
as an immigrant.
It seemed to leave the
rackets as the only path
to real riches and power.
(speaking Latin)
♪ ♪
Taking Torrio up on his offer,
Capone decides to move to Chicago,
giving up his job in Baltimore
and planning to call for his family
once he gets himself set up.
(Laurence) I think what really
clinched the move to Chicago
was the fact that Johnny
Torrio summoned him.
If it had been anybody else,
Capone might have remained
in Baltimore indefinitely.
But if Johnny Torrio
said he should do it,
then he was gonna do it.
♪ ♪
In the winter of 1919,
Al Capone arrives in Chicago
to work for gangster Johnny Torrio.
Excuse me.
Welcome to Chicago.
Johnny... this is incredible.
What, you surprised?
No, it's just...
This place is something else.
It's a bit better than
what we had in New York, huh?
Yeah, just a little.
Hello.
Come on, I'll show you around.
♪ ♪
Since leaving New York,
Torrio has quickly moved up the ranks
of Chicago's underworld,
now running hundreds of
brothels and gambling dens in the city.
And the most
impressive is The Four Deuces.
(man) The Four Deuces
was run by Johnny Torrio.
The first floor was a tavern,
the second floor was a gambling hall,
the third floor a house of prostitution,
and the fourth floor was his offices
for the illegal activities that he ran.
(narrator) All combined,
Torrio's operations bring in
the modern-day
equivalent of $55 million a year.
But he has to kick up a
big piece of the profits
to his boss,
Chicago's most powerful crime lord
"Big Jim" Colosimo.
(man) "Big Jim" Colosimo was
certainly the most successful gangster
in Chicago before Prohibition.
His gang was taking in, by
far, the largest revenues.
He was diversified,
where a lot of the other
guys were specialized.
He had his hand in
gambling, prostitution...
in some labor racketeering, et cetera.
(narrator) But even though
Colosimo owns the largest empire of
brothels and casinos in Chicago...
he's still only one of several kingpins.
Chicago was a city of neighborhoods.
So the businesses grew up
outta the neighborhoods.
Italians were mostly in the south
and there more
Irish-led gangs on the north side.
(narrator) Capone's just
signed on to work for
one of the most
profitable gangs in the city...
but soon...
a decision from Washington
will change the
mob in Chicago forever...
and bring him back
into a life of violence.
I've been going over these.
There's a lot of money here.
There's ten more of those to come.
(narrator) Al Capone's joined
up with his former mentor,
criminal mastermind Johnny Torrio,
managing the books for
Torrio's multimillion-dollar operation.
(Laurence) Johnny Torrio is considered
the father of corporate crime.
He was very quiet, very organized.
Everything that Capone learned
about the administration
of an organized-crime
syndicate, he learned from Johnny Torrio.
(narrator) Working for Torrio,
Capone's making 20 times
what he was earning in Baltimore.
But then...
Washington creates a law that
will change the Mafia forever.
On January 17, 1920
Congress passes the 18th Amendment,
banning the sale of
alcohol across the country...
in what will come to be
known as Prohibition.
The thing about
Prohibition that was unbelievable
is you took one of the
biggest businesses in the country,
run by legitimate people,
and you suddenly made, by definition,
anyone doing it a criminal.
As if you suddenly
said to the underworld now,
"Here's the computer
business, you guys run it."
("Johnny") Every brewery in Chicago
will be going out of business.
We could buy a
brewery for next to nothing.
And do what?
Brew our own beer?
Not just brew it.
Sell it.
To every underground bar, nightclub
and brothel in Chicago.
Us.
We do it.
How much do they pay for a beer now?
What, like a nickel.
Triple that.
When it's against the law,
they're gonna pay more for it.
You think "Big Jim" will go for it?
Well, he'd be stupid not to.
♪ ♪
(Jonathan) Johnny Torrio had the
idea to go to these former brewers
and to say, "So you're shut
down by Prohibition?
"How about I buy your brewery?
How about I take over there?"
He recognized that this was
a big, big opportunity.
(narrator) With their plan in place,
Torrio and Capone just
need "Big Jim's" approval.
Sure... we can make a fortune.
♪ ♪
Once we get things up and running,
we'll be producing enough
booze to supply
every one of your joints.
For pennies on the dollar.
A barrel that costs
us five bucks to brew,
we sell for 45.
Sell?
("Johnny") That's the plan.
If we move on this,
we'll be selling beer
to half of Chicago.
Can you imagine how much money
we'll be bringing in?
We'll continue to sell booze
in our clubs and our brothels...
but we're not making it,
and we're not distributing it.
This is millions of
dollars we're talking about here.
And you think you're the only one
who's thought of it?
Every gang in
Chicago is gonna be fighting
for a piece of that action.
It's gonna be trouble.
Trouble I don't need.
Well, then let us deal with it.
We'll run things.
And we'll split the profits 50-50.
50-50?
You work for me.
Managing my businesses.
No one... in my organization
is going into bootlegging.
No one.
Am I clear?
Am... I... clear?!
Yeah.
Now get out.
You hear the way he talked to me?
Worry about it.
If he doesn't wanna do
it, he doesn't wanna do it.
I don't care what he wants.
Who do you think runs his brothels,
his clubs, his entire empire?
I do.
Not him... me.
Johnny, you heard him.
He's not gonna change his mind.
Yeah, I know.
If he doesn't wanna
get into bootlegging,
that's his problem.
But he's not gonna stop us.
I'm gonna do this,
and I'm gonna do
this with or without you.
And I need to know
that you're with me on this.
All right.
I'm in.
(narrator) Without "Big Jim's" support,
Capone and Torrio
decide to start their own
bootlegging racket,
directly defying one of the
most powerful and dangerous men
in Chicago.
(narrator) Despite being forbidden
from going into bootlegging
by their boss, "Big Jim" Colosimo,
Johnny Torrio and Al Capone
decide to start buying breweries
that are going out of business.
With breweries closing
due to Prohibition,
Torrio's able to buy them
for pennies on the dollar.
Come on, guys.
Let's get moving.
It's not long before
they're selling their illegal booze
to hundreds of speakeasies
and nightclubs throughout Chicago.
(Jonathan) Torrio was
a sophisticated thinker,
and he recognized that
this wasn't just something
that you did haphazardly,
but that it had something in common with
running a real business.
(narrator) Within months,
they've acquired six breweries
and begin producing thousands
of bottles of beer a week.
But even though their
bootlegging business
is taking off, they
still answer to "Big Jim."
Show me the books.
On the left you have the receipts.
I know how to read a ledger.
What's this number here?
That's cash unaccounted for.
Unaccounted for?
Why don't you just
call it what it is... missing.
I just haven't accounted for it yet.
Well, how do I know you didn't take it?
What?
How do I know you didn't take it?
I didn't.
I started as a collector...
and there was this guy...
Georgie Spencer.
And he had $300 unaccounted for.
You know what I did?
(brass knuckles banging)
I took that $300 from his wallet...
as Georgie bled out in the street.
I didn't take your money.
Then go find it.
Capone is convinced that "Big Jim"
is onto their bootlegging business.
Fearful that "Big Jim" will
order a hit on them,
Capone isn't sure what to do next.
(Jonathan) There's no question
that Colosimo was dangerous.
If he had learned that there
was a plot against his business,
I'm quite certain he would've
killed them himself.
♪ ♪
("Johnny") We're gonna have to kill him.
("Al") You joking?
Get rid of him?
You sure this is the right move?
Well, he's leaving us no other choice.
I know, but still.
This is what needs to be done.
(Jonathan) Colosimo was so powerful
that Johnny Torrio felt like
he had to get him out of the way.
The one thing that everybody
in this business knew was that if
someone's comin' for you, you
gotta take care of them first.
♪ ♪
(door opening)
(narrator) With "Big Jim" having
so many connections in Chicago,
Torrio brings in a New York hit
man he knows he can trust:
Capone's old boss, Frankie Yale.
I'm glad you could come, Frankie.
It's good to see you.
And I ain't seen you since Brooklyn.
He was supposed to
collect some money for me, right?
He ends up killing the guy.
Things didn't go as planned.
Don't worry about it.
He was never gonna pay up.
Okay, I got you here for a job.
The important thing is,
is that it doesn't come
back to us, do you understand me?
Who is it?
"Big Jim."
(chuckling)
Yeah, you are crazy!
We're gonna take some action here
and I need your help.
How much?
You get the other
half when the job is done.
You tell me when and where.
I'll take care of the rest.
Thanks, Frankie.
(John) It's a very big
deal in organized crime
to try and kill the... the
leader of the crime family.
John Torrio was taking a
chance when he decided to kill
"Big Jim" Colosimo.
If Colosimo would've found out,
if... if something
would have leaked out,
Torrio would've been a dead man.
♪ ♪
(revolver barrel spinning)
(phone ringing)
(phone ringing continues)
Yeah?
("Johnny") Hey, it's Johnny here.
I've got a couple of guys wanting to
meet up with you...
discuss a business opportunity.
You got some time?
- Fine.
- All right... (phone hanging up)
(gunshot firing)
(narrator) On May 11, 1920,
"Big Jim" Colosimo is gunned down
in the lobby of his café.
The murder shocks the city of Chicago.
But with no
witnesses willing to testify...
the crime is never solved.
- Salute.
Only hours after "Big Jim's" death
Torrio takes control of
his multimillion-dollar empire,
becoming the leader
of the Italian underworld
and one of the
biggest kingpins in Chicago.
(John) Like most gangsters, there's
two sides to being a mob boss.
It's almost like being a medieval king.
You have to be good
at the military side,
you have to be good at
the violence, et cetera.
You have to be willing to commit
and send people to commit violence.
And then you also have
to be good at ruling.
You have to run the kingdom.
(narrator) Torrio and Capone
use their new power to expand
their bootlegging racket
and soon they're one
of the biggest suppliers
of alcohol in the city.
But with their raised
profile come new challenges.
(birds chirping)
As they grow their operations,
they begin taking more risks...
pushing into northern territory
controlled by their fiercest rival...
(whistling)
powerful Irish bootleggers.
(gunshot firing)
Who do you work for?
(groaning)
I said, "Who do you work for?"
Johnny Torrio...
Al Capone.
You tell those Italians
to stay the hell out of the North Side.
(groaning)